# 120-Years-of-Olympic-Games---Tableau-analysis

### Introduction:
The Olympic Games are a well-known sporting platform that has been acknowledged all over the world since the late nineteenth century. Its origins, on the other hand, can be traced back to the Greek empire around 3,000 years ago, when it was limited to a single sprint race held in Greece's Olympia and only open to freeborn Greeks. It has evolved since then and is now a centre for all athletes from across the world to demonstrate their abilities in more than 28 different sporting competitions. It is currently hosted every two years in various countries under the labels Summer Olympics and Winter Olympics, each with its own set of games. It has evolved into a space that represents the individual candidates' power and serves as a source of pride for the countries they represent. It is one of my favorite seasons, and I eagerly anticipate it each year. Many athletes become generational heroes, waving their countries' flags and, more importantly, providing a good example for children and youngsters. From 776 BC to 393 AD, the ancient Olympic Games were held in Olympia, Greece. After 1503 years, it resurfaced. In 1896, the first modern Olympics were held in Athens, Greece. The Games are referred to as the "Modern Olympics" from Athens 1896 to Rio 2016. Between 1912 and 1920 and 1936 and 1948, there are two long periods without any Games, both related to WWI and WWII. The purpose of this report and visualizations is to answer some research questions that I've been considering. During the preparation of this report, I focused on the Tableau visualization tool because of its ease of use and different options for enhancing the appearance and feel of the graphs. It also speeds up the process of creating an interactive presentation, which is useful for delivering more data and comparing it all on the same page or dashboard. The most important advantage of visual analytics is that it makes complex data easier to analyze while presenting it in a clear, succinct, and suitable manner. This report gives a useful visual examination of the Olympic games from 1896 to 2016. The following are the questions:
1. What is the average age of Olympic athletes, and how many medals have they earned overall, by gender and sport? In this question, I'm trying to figure out how an        athlete's age affects his or her ability to win or lose. I'm also curious to see if female athletes win more or fewer medals than male athletes.
2. Do GDP and population have any bearing on a country's ability to win? Find out how some of the world's best countries fared in the Olympics. My goal is to see if a      country's GDP and population have any bearing on how many medals it receives. Does having high GDP help the country to win more medals? I'd also like to know how 
   many medals some of the top countries have won in total, as well as in which host cities they won them.
3. Identify a trend in the number of female athletes competing in the Olympics and the 
   number of events in Olympics. I'd like to know if the total number of female Olympians competing in the Games has increased or reduced over time, as well as whether      the number of events has increased or decreased.
